[geneva] Add support for sending metrics in OTLP format over UDS (#2261)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-dotnet-contrib: src/OpenTelemetry.Exporter.Geneva/README.md

###### Windows

To send metric data over ETW in OTLP format set
`PrivatePreviewEnableOtlpProtobufEncoding=true` on the `ConnectionString`:
`Account={MetricAccount};Namespace={MetricNamespace};PrivatePreviewEnableOtlpProtobufEncoding=true`.

###### Linux

As of `1.10.0` `PrivatePreviewEnableOtlpProtobufEncoding=true` is also supported
on Linux.

###### When using unix domain socket

To send metric data over UDS in OTLP format set the `Endpoint` to use the
correct `OtlpSocketPath` path and set
`PrivatePreviewEnableOtlpProtobufEncoding=true` on the `ConnectionString`:
`Endpoint=unix:{OTLP UDS
Path};Account={MetricAccount};Namespace={MetricNamespace};PrivatePreviewEnableOtlpProtobufEncoding=true`.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> OTLP over UDS requires a different socket path than TLV over UDS.

###### When using user_events

> [!IMPORTANT]
> [user_events](https://docs.kernel.org/trace/user_events.html) are a newer
> feature of the Linux kernel and require a distro with the feature enabled.

To send metric data over user_events in OTLP format do **NOT** specify an
`Endpoint` and set `PrivatePreviewEnableOtlpProtobufEncoding=true` on the
`ConnectionString`:

> `Account={MetricAccount};Namespace={MetricNamespace};PrivatePreviewEnableOtlpProtobufEncoding=true`.

Reviewer: when using OTLPProtobufEncoding, do we need to ask users to specify account,ns in connection string? Its best to specify it using Resource itself (using well known conventions used internally inside Microsoft).

Reviewer 2: Are you proposing to change the current behavior and rely on resources to pass the namespace? Currently, our README suggests passing 'ns' in the connection string

Reviewer: > rely on resources to pass the namespace

Namespace *and* account.

> Currently, our README suggests passing 'ns' in the connection string

Yes, that is true as there was no other place to specify account,ns. But with otlp-protobuf, there is well known place, and that should be leveraged.

Author: I pushed updates to show using resource instead

##### OtlpProtobufEncoding

An experimental feature flag is available to opt-into changing the underlying
serialization format to binary protobuf following the schema defined in [OTLP
specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/v1.1.0/opentelemetry/proto/metrics/v1/metrics.proto).

> When using OTLP format `Account` and `Namespace` are **NOT** required to be set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using OTLP protobuf encoding, `Account` and `Namespace` are **NOT** required to be set
```

I suggest to use OTLP protobuf encoding and not just OTLP to avoid confusing with OTLP Exporter... Other than encoding metrics using OTLP protobuf, there is no connection to OTLP here!

on the `ConnectionString`. The recommended approach is to use OpenTelemetry
Resource instead:

```csharp
using var meterProvider = Sdk.CreateMeterProviderBuilder()
    // Other configuration not shown
    .ConfigureResource(r => r.AddAttributes(
        new Dictionary<string, object>()
        {
            ["_microsoft_metrics_account"] = "MetricsAccountGoesHere",
            ["_microsoft_metrics_namespace"] = "MetricsNamespaceGoesHere",
        }))
    .AddGenevaMetricExporter(options =>
    {
        if (RuntimeInformation.IsOSPlatform(OSPlatform.Windows))
        {
            options.ConnectionString = "PrivatePreviewEnableOtlpProtobufEncoding=true";
        }
        else
        {
            // Note: 1.10.0+ version required to use OTLP format on Linux

            // Use Unix domain socket mode
            options.ConnectionString = "Endpoint=unix:{OTLP UDS Path};PrivatePreviewEnableOtlpProtobufEncoding=true";

>             // Use user_events mode (preferred but considered experimental)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            // Use user_events mode (preferred but considered experimental as this is a new capability in Linux kernel)
```
